docs/getting-started/usage.md, before:

# Quickstart {#usage}

The CO2 tracking tool can be used along with any computing framework. It
supports both `online` (with internet access) and `offline` (without
internet access) modes. The tracker can be used in the following ways:

## Online Mode

When the environment has internet access, the `EmissionsTracker` object
or the `track_emissions` decorator can be used, which has the `offline`
parameter set to `False` by default.

### Command line {#usage-command-line}

Create a minimal configuration file (just follow the prompts) :

``` console
codecarbon config
```

[![Init config](https://asciinema.org/a/667970.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667970)

You can use the same command to modify an existing config :

[![Modify config](https://asciinema.org/a/667971.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667971)

If you want to track the emissions of a computer without having to
modify your code, you can use :

``` console
codecarbon monitor
```

You have to stop the monitoring manually with `Ctrl+C`.

If you want to detect the hardware of your computer without starting any
measurement, you can use:

``` console
codecarbon detect
```

It will print the detected RAM, CPU and GPU information.

In the following example you will see how to use the CLI to monitor all
the emissions of you computer and sending everything to an API running
on \"localhost:8008\" (Or you can start a private local API with
\"docker-compose up\"). Using the public API with this is not supported
yet (coming soon!)

[![Monitor example](https://asciinema.org/a/667984.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667984)

The command line could also works without internet by providing the
country code like this:

``` console
codecarbon monitor --offline --country-iso-code FRA
```

### Running Any Command with CodeCarbon

If you want to track emissions while running any command or program (not
just Python scripts), you can use the `codecarbon monitor --` command.
This allows non-Python users to measure machine emissions during the
execution of any command:

``` console
codecarbon monitor -- <your_command>
```

Do not surround `<your_command>` with quotes. The double hyphen `--`
indicates the end of CodeCarbon options and the beginning of the command
to run.

**Examples:**

``` console
# Run a shell script
codecarbon monitor -- ./benchmark.sh

# Run a command with arguments (use quotes for special characters)
codecarbon monitor -- bash -c 'echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"'

# Run Python scripts
codecarbon monitor -- python train_model.py

# Run Node.js applications
codecarbon monitor -- node app.js

# Run tests with output redirection
codecarbon monitor -- npm run test > output.txt

# Display the CodeCarbon detailed logs
codecarbon monitor --log-level debug -- python --version
```

**Output:**

When the command completes, CodeCarbon displays a summary report and
saves the emissions data to a CSV file:

``` console
🌱 CodeCarbon: Starting emissions tracking...
   Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"

Processing...
Done!

============================================================
🌱 CodeCarbon Emissions Report
============================================================
   Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"
   Emissions: 0.0317 g CO2eq
   Saved to: /home/user/emissions.csv
   ⚠️  Note: Measured entire machine (includes all system processes)
============================================================
```

!!! note "Note"

    The `codecarbon monitor --` command tracks process-level emissions (only
    the specific command), not the entire machine. For machine-level
    tracking, use the `codecarbon monitor` command.

    For more fine-grained tracking, implementing CodeCarbon in your code
    allows you to track the emissions of a specific block of code.

### Explicit Object

In the case of absence of a single entry and stop point for the training
code base, users can instantiate a `EmissionsTracker` object and pass it
as a parameter to function calls to start and stop the emissions
tracking of the compute section.

``` python
from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker
tracker = EmissionsTracker()
tracker.start()
try:
     # Compute intensive code goes here
     _ = 1 + 1
finally:
     tracker.stop()
```

This mode is recommended when using a Jupyter Notebook. You call
`tracker.start()` at the beginning of the Notebook, and call
`tracker.stop()` in the last cell.

This mode also allows you to record the monitoring with
`tracker.flush()` that writes the emissions to disk or call the API
depending on the configuration, but keep running the experiment.

If you want to monitor small piece of code, like a model inference, you
could use the task manager:

``` python
try:
    tracker = EmissionsTracker(project_name="bert_inference", measure_power_secs=10)
    tracker.start_task("load dataset")
    dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="test")
    imdb_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
    tracker.start_task("build model")
    model = build_model()
    model_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
finally:
    _ = tracker.stop()
```

This way CodeCarbon will track the emissions of each task . The task
will not be written to disk to prevent overhead, you have to get the
results from the return of `stop_task()`. If no name is provided,
CodeCarbon will generate a uuid.

Please note that you can't use task mode and normal mode at the same
time. Because `start_task` will stop the scheduler as we do not want it
to interfere with the task measurement.

### Context manager

The `Emissions tracker` also works as a context manager.

``` python
from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker

with EmissionsTracker() as tracker:
    # Compute intensive training code goes here
```

This mode is recommended when you want to monitor a specific block of
code.

### Decorator

In case the training code base is wrapped in a function, users can use
the decorator `@track_emissions` within the function to enable tracking
emissions of the training code.

``` python
from codecarbon import track_emissions

@track_emissions
def training_loop():
    # Compute intensive training code goes here
```

This mode is recommended if you have a training function.

!!! note "Note"

    This will write a csv file named emissions.csv in the current directory.

## Offline Mode

An offline version is available to support restricted environments
without internet access. The internal computations remain unchanged;
however, a `country_iso_code` parameter, which corresponds to the
3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute
infrastructure is hosted, is required to fetch Carbon Intensity details
of the regional electricity used. A complete list of country ISO codes
can be found on
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes).

### Explicit Object

Developers can use the `OfflineEmissionsTracker` object to track
emissions as follows:

``` python
from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker
tracker = OfflineEmissionsTracker(country_iso_code="CAN")
tracker.start()
# GPU intensive training code
tracker.stop()
```

### Context manager

The `OfflineEmissionsTracker` also works as a context manager

``` python
from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker

with OfflineEmissionsTracker() as tracker:
# GPU intensive training code  goes here
```

### Decorator

The `track_emissions` decorator in offline mode requires following two
parameters:

-   `offline` needs to be set to `True`, which defaults to `False` for
    online mode.
-   `country_iso_code` the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country
    where the compute infrastructure is hosted

``` python
from codecarbon import track_emissions
@track_emissions(offline=True, country_iso_code="CAN")
def training_loop():
    # training code goes here
    pass
```

The Carbon emissions will be saved to a `emissions.csv` file in the same
directory. Please refer to the
[complete API](parameters.md) for additional
parameters and configuration options.

# Configuration

## Configuration priority

CodeCarbon is structured so that you can configure it in a hierarchical manner:

:   -   *global* parameters in your home folder `~/.codecarbon.config`
    -   *local* parameters (with respect to the current working
        directory) in `./.codecarbon.config`
    -   *environment variables* parameters starting with `CODECARBON_`
    -   *script* parameters in the tracker's initialization as
        `EmissionsTracker(param=value)`

!!! warning "Configuration files"

    Configuration files **must** be named `.codecarbon.config` and start
    with a section header `[codecarbon]` as the first line in the file.

    For instance:

    -   `~/.codecarbon.config`

        ``` bash
        [codecarbon]
        measure_power_secs=10
        save_to_file=local-overwrite
        emissions_endpoint=localhost:7777
        ```

    -   `./.codecarbon.config` will override `~/.codecarbon.config` if the
        same parameter is set in both files:

        ``` bash
        [codecarbon]
        save_to_file = true
        output_dir = /Users/victor/emissions
        electricitymaps_api_token=script-overwrite
        experiment_id = 235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c
        log_level = DEBUG
        tracking_mode = process
        ```

    -   environment variables will override `./.codecarbon.config` if the
        same parameter is set in both files:

        ``` bash
        export CODECARBON_GPU_IDS="0, 1"
        export CODECARBON_LOG_LEVEL="WARNING"
        ```

    -   script parameters will override environment variables if the same
        parameter is set in both:

        ``` python
        EmissionsTracker(
           api_call_interval=4,
           save_to_api=True,
           electricitymaps_api_token="some-token")
        ```

Yields attributes:

``` python
{
    "measure_power_secs": 10,  # from ~/.codecarbon.config
    "save_to_file": True,   # from ./.codecarbon.config (override ~/.codecarbon.config)
    "api_call_interval": 4, # from script
    "save_to_api": True,   # from script
    "experiment_id": "235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "log_level": "WARNING", # from environment variable (override ./.codecarbon.config)
    "tracking_mode": "process", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "emissions_endpoint": "localhost:7777", # from ~/.codecarbon.config
    "output_dir": "/Users/victor/emissions", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "electricitymaps_api_token": "some-token", # from script (override ./.codecarbon.config)
    "gpu_ids": [0, 1], # from environment variable
}
```

!!! note "Note"

    If you're wondering about the configuration files' syntax, be aware
    that under the hood `codecarbon` uses
    [`ConfigParser`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#module-configparser)
    which relies on the [INI
    syntax](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#supported-ini-file-structure).

## Access internet through proxy server

If you need a proxy to access internet, which is needed to call a Web
API, like [Codecarbon API](https://api.codecarbon.io/docs), you have to
set environment variable `HTTPS_PROXY`, or *HTTP_PROXY* if calling an
`http://` endpoint.

You could do it in your shell:

``` shell
export HTTPS_PROXY="http://0.0.0.0:0000"
```

Or in your Python code:

``` python
import os

os.environ["HTTPS_PROXY"] = "http://0.0.0.0:0000"
```

For more information, please read the [requests library proxy
documentation](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/advanced/#proxies)

Commit message:

docs(quickstart): add login and no-api guidance in markdown docs

docs/getting-started/usage.md, after:

# Quickstart {#usage}

The CO2 tracking tool can be used along with any computing framework. It
supports both `online` (with internet access) and `offline` (without
internet access) modes. The tracker can be used in the following ways:

## Online Mode

When the environment has internet access, the `EmissionsTracker` object
or the `track_emissions` decorator can be used, which has the `offline`
parameter set to `False` by default.

### Command line {#usage-command-line}

Create a minimal configuration file (just follow the prompts) :

``` console
codecarbon config
```

[![Init config](https://asciinema.org/a/667970.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667970)

Then login from your terminal to authenticate CLI/API usage:

``` console
codecarbon login
```

You can use the same command to modify an existing config :

[![Modify config](https://asciinema.org/a/667971.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667971)

If you want to track the emissions of a computer without having to
modify your code, you can use :

``` console
codecarbon monitor
```

You have to stop the monitoring manually with `Ctrl+C`.

If you only need local measurement and do not want to send data to the API,
use:

``` console
codecarbon monitor --no-api
```

If you want to detect the hardware of your computer without starting any
measurement, you can use:

``` console
codecarbon detect
```

It will print the detected RAM, CPU and GPU information.

In the following example you will see how to use the CLI to monitor all
the emissions of you computer and sending everything to an API running
on \"localhost:8008\" (Or you can start a private local API with
\"docker-compose up\"). Using the public API with this is not supported
yet (coming soon!)

[![Monitor example](https://asciinema.org/a/667984.svg){.align-center}](https://asciinema.org/a/667984)

The command line could also works without internet by providing the
country code like this:

``` console
codecarbon monitor --offline --country-iso-code FRA
```

### Running Any Command with CodeCarbon

If you want to track emissions while running any command or program (not
just Python scripts), you can use the `codecarbon monitor --` command.
This allows non-Python users to measure machine emissions during the
execution of any command:

``` console
codecarbon monitor -- <your_command>
```

Do not surround `<your_command>` with quotes. The double hyphen `--`
indicates the end of CodeCarbon options and the beginning of the command
to run.

**Examples:**

``` console
# Run a shell script
codecarbon monitor -- ./benchmark.sh

# Run a command with arguments (use quotes for special characters)
codecarbon monitor -- bash -c 'echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"'

# Run Python scripts
codecarbon monitor -- python train_model.py

# Run Node.js applications
codecarbon monitor -- node app.js

# Run tests with output redirection
codecarbon monitor -- npm run test > output.txt

# Display the CodeCarbon detailed logs
codecarbon monitor --log-level debug -- python --version
```

**Output:**

When the command completes, CodeCarbon displays a summary report and
saves the emissions data to a CSV file:

``` console
🌱 CodeCarbon: Starting emissions tracking...
   Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"

Processing...
Done!

============================================================
🌱 CodeCarbon Emissions Report
============================================================
   Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"
   Emissions: 0.0317 g CO2eq
   Saved to: /home/user/emissions.csv
   ⚠️  Note: Measured entire machine (includes all system processes)
============================================================
```

!!! note "Note"

    The `codecarbon monitor --` command tracks process-level emissions (only
    the specific command), not the entire machine. For machine-level
    tracking, use the `codecarbon monitor` command.

    For more fine-grained tracking, implementing CodeCarbon in your code
    allows you to track the emissions of a specific block of code.

### Explicit Object

In the case of absence of a single entry and stop point for the training
code base, users can instantiate a `EmissionsTracker` object and pass it
as a parameter to function calls to start and stop the emissions
tracking of the compute section.

``` python
from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker
tracker = EmissionsTracker()
tracker.start()
try:
     # Compute intensive code goes here
     _ = 1 + 1
finally:
     tracker.stop()
```

This mode is recommended when using a Jupyter Notebook. You call
`tracker.start()` at the beginning of the Notebook, and call
`tracker.stop()` in the last cell.

This mode also allows you to record the monitoring with
`tracker.flush()` that writes the emissions to disk or call the API
depending on the configuration, but keep running the experiment.

If you want to monitor small piece of code, like a model inference, you
could use the task manager:

``` python
try:
    tracker = EmissionsTracker(project_name="bert_inference", measure_power_secs=10)
    tracker.start_task("load dataset")
    dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="test")
    imdb_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
    tracker.start_task("build model")
    model = build_model()
    model_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
finally:
    _ = tracker.stop()
```

This way CodeCarbon will track the emissions of each task . The task
will not be written to disk to prevent overhead, you have to get the
results from the return of `stop_task()`. If no name is provided,
CodeCarbon will generate a uuid.

Please note that you can't use task mode and normal mode at the same
time. Because `start_task` will stop the scheduler as we do not want it
to interfere with the task measurement.

### Context manager

The `Emissions tracker` also works as a context manager.

``` python
from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker

with EmissionsTracker() as tracker:
    # Compute intensive training code goes here
```

This mode is recommended when you want to monitor a specific block of
code.

### Decorator

In case the training code base is wrapped in a function, users can use
the decorator `@track_emissions` within the function to enable tracking
emissions of the training code.

``` python
from codecarbon import track_emissions

@track_emissions
def training_loop():
    # Compute intensive training code goes here
```

This mode is recommended if you have a training function.

!!! note "Note"

    This will write a csv file named emissions.csv in the current directory.

## Offline Mode

An offline version is available to support restricted environments
without internet access. The internal computations remain unchanged;
however, a `country_iso_code` parameter, which corresponds to the
3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute
infrastructure is hosted, is required to fetch Carbon Intensity details
of the regional electricity used. A complete list of country ISO codes
can be found on
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes).

### Explicit Object

Developers can use the `OfflineEmissionsTracker` object to track
emissions as follows:

``` python
from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker
tracker = OfflineEmissionsTracker(country_iso_code="CAN")
tracker.start()
# GPU intensive training code
tracker.stop()
```

### Context manager

The `OfflineEmissionsTracker` also works as a context manager

``` python
from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker

with OfflineEmissionsTracker() as tracker:
# GPU intensive training code  goes here
```

### Decorator

The `track_emissions` decorator in offline mode requires following two
parameters:

-   `offline` needs to be set to `True`, which defaults to `False` for
    online mode.
-   `country_iso_code` the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country
    where the compute infrastructure is hosted

``` python
from codecarbon import track_emissions
@track_emissions(offline=True, country_iso_code="CAN")
def training_loop():
    # training code goes here
    pass
```

The Carbon emissions will be saved to a `emissions.csv` file in the same
directory. Please refer to the
[complete API](parameters.md) for additional
parameters and configuration options.

# Configuration

## Configuration priority

CodeCarbon is structured so that you can configure it in a hierarchical manner:

:   -   *global* parameters in your home folder `~/.codecarbon.config`
    -   *local* parameters (with respect to the current working
        directory) in `./.codecarbon.config`
    -   *environment variables* parameters starting with `CODECARBON_`
    -   *script* parameters in the tracker's initialization as
        `EmissionsTracker(param=value)`

!!! warning "Configuration files"

    Configuration files **must** be named `.codecarbon.config` and start
    with a section header `[codecarbon]` as the first line in the file.

    For instance:

    -   `~/.codecarbon.config`

        ``` bash
        [codecarbon]
        measure_power_secs=10
        save_to_file=local-overwrite
        emissions_endpoint=localhost:7777
        ```

    -   `./.codecarbon.config` will override `~/.codecarbon.config` if the
        same parameter is set in both files:

        ``` bash
        [codecarbon]
        save_to_file = true
        output_dir = /Users/victor/emissions
        electricitymaps_api_token=script-overwrite
        experiment_id = 235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c
        log_level = DEBUG
        tracking_mode = process
        ```

    -   environment variables will override `./.codecarbon.config` if the
        same parameter is set in both files:

        ``` bash
        export CODECARBON_GPU_IDS="0, 1"
        export CODECARBON_LOG_LEVEL="WARNING"
        ```

    -   script parameters will override environment variables if the same
        parameter is set in both:

        ``` python
        EmissionsTracker(
           api_call_interval=4,
           save_to_api=True,
           electricitymaps_api_token="some-token")
        ```

Yields attributes:

``` python
{
    "measure_power_secs": 10,  # from ~/.codecarbon.config
    "save_to_file": True,   # from ./.codecarbon.config (override ~/.codecarbon.config)
    "api_call_interval": 4, # from script
    "save_to_api": True,   # from script
    "experiment_id": "235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "log_level": "WARNING", # from environment variable (override ./.codecarbon.config)
    "tracking_mode": "process", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "emissions_endpoint": "localhost:7777", # from ~/.codecarbon.config
    "output_dir": "/Users/victor/emissions", # from ./.codecarbon.config
    "electricitymaps_api_token": "some-token", # from script (override ./.codecarbon.config)
    "gpu_ids": [0, 1], # from environment variable
}
```

!!! note "Note"

    If you're wondering about the configuration files' syntax, be aware
    that under the hood `codecarbon` uses
    [`ConfigParser`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#module-configparser)
    which relies on the [INI
    syntax](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#supported-ini-file-structure).

## Access internet through proxy server

If you need a proxy to access internet, which is needed to call a Web
API, like [Codecarbon API](https://api.codecarbon.io/docs), you have to
set environment variable `HTTPS_PROXY`, or *HTTP_PROXY* if calling an
`http://` endpoint.

You could do it in your shell:

``` shell
export HTTPS_PROXY="http://0.0.0.0:0000"
```

Or in your Python code:

``` python
import os

os.environ["HTTPS_PROXY"] = "http://0.0.0.0:0000"
```

For more information, please read the [requests library proxy
documentation](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/advanced/#proxies)
