docs/edit/faq.rst, before:

.. _faq:

Frequently Asked Questions
===========================

* **How accurate are your estimations?**
	It is hard to quantify the entirety of computing emissions, because there are many factors in play, notably the life-cycle emissions of computing infrastructure. We therefore only focus on the direct emissions produced by running the actual code, but recognize that there is much work to be done to improve this estimation.

* **How do I offset my emissions?**
	There are many offsetting schemes, and it is hard to recommend any single one. For one-shot offsetting, the `Gold Standard <https://www.goldstandard.org/>`_ is often used, and has many offsetting projects to choose from at different prices. There are often local initiatives as well, so try researching what exists in your region/country. For a recurring offset, `Project Wren <https://projectwren.com/>`_  lets you estimate your monthly carbon emissions and offset them via a monthly subscription. Keep in mind that offsetting is a good choice, but *reducing your emissions* should be the priority.


* **How can I help?**
	If you find a functionality missing in the codecarbon repo, please `open an issue <https://github.com/mlco2/codecarbon/issues>`_ so that you (and others!) can help add it. We did our best to cover all use cases and options, but we count on the open source community to help make the package an even greater success.

Commit message:

Add energy sources to the doc

docs/edit/faq.rst, after:

.. _faq:

Frequently Asked Questions
===========================

* **How accurate are your estimations?**
	It is hard to quantify the entirety of computing emissions, because there are many factors in play, notably the life-cycle emissions of computing infrastructure. We therefore only focus on the direct emissions produced by running the actual code, but recognize that there is much work to be done to improve this estimation.

* **What are the sources of your energy carbon intensity data?**
	We use the following sources:
	
		For cloud computing :

		- (`google cloud plateform <https://cloud.google.com/sustainability/region-carbon?hl=fr>`_)

		- AWS and Azure sources are much more scatter and can be find directly in the (`csv file <https://github.com/mlco2/codecarbon/blob/master/codecarbon/data/cloud/impact.csv>`_)
		
		For private infra :
		
		- When available we use data from (`ourworld in data <https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/carbon-intensity-electricity?tab=table>`_)
		
		- if not available we use the electricity mix of the country find on (`globalpetrolprices.com <https://www.globalpetrolprices.com/energy_mix.php>`_) that we multiply by the carbon intensity of the source of electricity (`that you can find here <https://github.com/mlco2/codecarbon/blob/master/codecarbon/data/private_infra/carbon_intensity_per_source.json>`_)
		
		- if we have neither we default to  a world avarage of 475 gCO2.eq/KWh that we take from ( `IEA <https://www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-co2-status-report-2019/emissions>`_ )
	

* **How do I offset my emissions?**
	There are many offsetting schemes, and it is hard to recommend any single one. For one-shot offsetting, the `Gold Standard <https://www.goldstandard.org/>`_ is often used, and has many offsetting projects to choose from at different prices. There are often local initiatives as well, so try researching what exists in your region/country. For a recurring offset, `Project Wren <https://projectwren.com/>`_  lets you estimate your monthly carbon emissions and offset them via a monthly subscription. Keep in mind that offsetting is a good choice, but *reducing your emissions* should be the priority.


* **How can I help?**
	If you find a functionality missing in the CodeCarbon repo, please `open an issue <https://github.com/mlco2/codecarbon/issues>`_ so that you (and others!) can help add it. We did our best to cover all use cases and options, but we count on the open source community to help make the package an even greater success.
