docs/edit/usage.rst, before:

.. _usage:

Quickstart
==========
The CO2 tracking tool can be used along with any computing framework. It supports both ``online`` (with internet access) and
``offline`` (without internet access) modes. The tracker can be used in the following ways:


Online Mode
-----------
When the environment has internet access, the ``EmissionsTracker`` object or the ``track_emissions`` decorator can be used, which has
the ``offline`` parameter set to ``False`` by default.

Command line
~~~~~~~~~~~~


Create a minimal configuration file (just follow the prompts) :

.. code-block:: console

  codecarbon config

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667970.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Init config
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667970

You can use the same command to modify an existing config :

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667971.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Modify config
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667971


If you want to track the emissions of a computer without having to modify your code, you can use :

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor

You have to stop the monitoring manually with ``Ctrl+C``.

If you want to detect the hardware of your computer without starting any measurement, you can use:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon detect

It will print the detected RAM, CPU and GPU information.

In the following example you will see how to use the CLI to monitor all the emissions of you computer and sending everything
to an API running on "localhost:8008" (Or you can start a private local API with "docker-compose up"). Using the public API with
this is not supported yet (coming soon!)

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667984.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Monitor example
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667984


The command line could also works without internet by providing the country code like this:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor --offline --country-iso-code FRA


Running Any Command with CodeCarbon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to track emissions while running any command or program (not just Python scripts), you can use the ``codecarbon monitor --`` command.
This allows non-Python users to measure machine emissions during the execution of any command:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor -- <your_command>

Do not surround ``<your_command>`` with quotes. The double hyphen ``--`` indicates the end of CodeCarbon options and the beginning of the command to run.

**Examples:**

.. code-block:: console

    # Run a shell script
    codecarbon monitor -- ./benchmark.sh

    # Run a command with arguments (use quotes for special characters)
    codecarbon monitor -- bash -c 'echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"'

    # Run Python scripts
    codecarbon monitor -- python train_model.py

    # Run Node.js applications
    codecarbon monitor -- node app.js

    # Run tests with output redirection
    codecarbon monitor -- npm run test > output.txt

    # Display the CodeCarbon detailed logs
    codecarbon monitor --log-level debug -- python --version

**Output:**

When the command completes, CodeCarbon displays a summary report and saves the emissions data to a CSV file:

.. code-block:: console

    🌱 CodeCarbon: Starting emissions tracking...
       Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"

    Processing...
    Done!

    ============================================================
    🌱 CodeCarbon Emissions Report
    ============================================================
       Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"
       Emissions: 0.0317 g CO2eq
       Saved to: /home/user/emissions.csv
       ⚠️  Note: Measured entire machine (includes all system processes)
    ============================================================

.. note::
    The ``codecarbon monitor --`` command tracks process-level emissions (only the specific command), not the
    entire machine. For machine-level tracking, use the ``codecarbon monitor`` command.

For more fine-grained tracking, implementing CodeCarbon in your code allows you to track the emissions of a specific block of code.

Explicit Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the case of absence of a single entry and stop point for the training code base, users can instantiate a ``EmissionsTracker`` object and
pass it as a parameter to function calls to start and stop the emissions tracking of the compute section.

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker
   tracker = EmissionsTracker()
   tracker.start()
   try:
        # Compute intensive code goes here
        _ = 1 + 1
   finally:
        tracker.stop()

This mode is recommended when using a Jupyter Notebook. You call ``tracker.start()`` at the beginning of the Notebook, and call ``tracker.stop()`` in the last cell.

This mode also allows you to record the monitoring with ``tracker.flush()`` that writes the emissions to disk or call the API depending on the configuration, but keep running the experiment.

If you want to monitor small piece of code, like a model inference, you could use the task manager:


.. code-block:: python

    try:
        tracker = EmissionsTracker(project_name="bert_inference", measure_power_secs=10)
        tracker.start_task("load dataset")
        dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="test")
        imdb_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
        tracker.start_task("build model")
        model = build_model()
        model_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
    finally:
        _ = tracker.stop()

This way CodeCarbon will track the emissions of each task .
The task will not be written to disk to prevent overhead, you have to get the results from the return of ``stop_task()``.
If no name is provided, CodeCarbon will generate a uuid.

Please note that you can't use task mode and normal mode at the same time. Because ``start_task`` will stop the scheduler as we do not want it to interfere with the task measurement.

Context manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``Emissions tracker`` also works as a context manager.

.. code-block:: python

    from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker

    with EmissionsTracker() as tracker:
        # Compute intensive training code goes here

This mode is recommended when you want to monitor a specific block of code.

Decorator
~~~~~~~~~
In case the training code base is wrapped in a function, users can use the decorator ``@track_emissions`` within the function to enable tracking
emissions of the training code.

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import track_emissions

   @track_emissions
   def training_loop():
       # Compute intensive training code goes here

This mode is recommended if you have a training function.

.. note::
    This will write a csv file named emissions.csv in the current directory

Offline Mode
------------
An offline version is available to support restricted environments without internet access. The internal computations remain unchanged; however,
a ``country_iso_code`` parameter, which corresponds to the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute infrastructure is hosted, is required to fetch Carbon Intensity details of the regional electricity used. A complete list of country ISO codes can be found on `Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes>`_.

Explicit Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Developers can use the ``OfflineEmissionsTracker`` object to track emissions as follows:

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker
   tracker = OfflineEmissionsTracker(country_iso_code="CAN")
   tracker.start()
   # GPU intensive training code
   tracker.stop()

Context manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``OfflineEmissionsTracker`` also works as a context manager

.. code-block:: python

    from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker

    with OfflineEmissionsTracker() as tracker:
    # GPU intensive training code  goes here


Decorator
~~~~~~~~~
The ``track_emissions`` decorator in offline mode requires following two parameters:

- ``offline`` needs to be set to ``True``, which defaults to ``False`` for online mode.
- ``country_iso_code`` the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute infrastructure is hosted

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import track_emissions
   @track_emissions(offline=True, country_iso_code="CAN")
   def training_loop():
       # training code goes here
       pass


The Carbon emissions will be saved to a ``emissions.csv`` file in the same directory. Please refer to the :ref:`complete API <parameters>` for
additional parameters and configuration options.


Configuration
=============

Configuration priority
----------------------

CodeCarbon is structured so that you can configure it in a hierarchical manner:
    * *global* parameters in your home folder ``~/.codecarbon.config``
    * *local* parameters (with respect to the current working directory) in ``./.codecarbon.config``
    * *environment variables* parameters starting with ``CODECARBON_``
    * *script* parameters in the tracker's initialization as ``EmissionsTracker(param=value)``

.. warning:: Configuration files **must** be named ``.codecarbon.config`` and start with a section header ``[codecarbon]`` as the first line in the file.

For instance:

* ``~/.codecarbon.config``

    .. code-block:: bash

            [codecarbon]
            measure_power_secs=10
            save_to_file=local-overwrite
            emissions_endpoint=localhost:7777


* ``./.codecarbon.config`` will override ``~/.codecarbon.config`` if the same parameter is set in both files :

	.. code-block:: bash

            [codecarbon]
            save_to_file = true
            output_dir = /Users/victor/emissions
            electricitymaps_api_token=script-overwrite
            experiment_id = 235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c
            log_level = DEBUG
            tracking_mode = process

* environment variables will override ``./.codecarbon.config`` if the same parameter is set in both files :

	.. code-block:: bash

            export CODECARBON_GPU_IDS="0, 1"
            export CODECARBON_LOG_LEVEL="WARNING"


* script parameters will override environment variables if the same parameter is set in both:

	.. code-block:: python

	     EmissionsTracker(
            api_call_interval=4,
            save_to_api=True,
            electricitymaps_api_token="some-token")

Yields attributes:

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "measure_power_secs": 10,  # from ~/.codecarbon.config
        "save_to_file": True,   # from ./.codecarbon.config (override ~/.codecarbon.config)
        "api_call_interval": 4, # from script
        "save_to_api": True,   # from script
        "experiment_id": "235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "log_level": "WARNING", # from environment variable (override ./.codecarbon.config)
        "tracking_mode": "process", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "emissions_endpoint": "localhost:7777", # from ~/.codecarbon.config
        "output_dir": "/Users/victor/emissions", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "electricitymaps_api_token": "some-token", # from script (override ./.codecarbon.config)
        "gpu_ids": [0, 1], # from environment variable
    }

.. |ConfigParser| replace:: ``ConfigParser``
.. _ConfigParser: https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#module-configparser

.. note:: If you're wondering about the configuration files' syntax, be aware that under the hood ``codecarbon`` uses |ConfigParser|_ which relies on the `INI syntax <https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#supported-ini-file-structure>`_.

Access internet through proxy server
------------------------------------

If you need a proxy to access internet, which is needed to call a Web API, like `Codecarbon API <https://api.codecarbon.io/docs>`_, you have to set environment variable ``HTTPS_PROXY``, or *HTTP_PROXY* if calling an ``http://`` endpoint.

You could do it in your shell:

.. code-block:: shell

    export HTTPS_PROXY="http://0.0.0.0:0000"

Or in your Python code:

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["HTTPS_PROXY"] = "http://0.0.0.0:0000"

For more information, please read the `requests library proxy documentation <https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/advanced/#proxies>`_

Commit message:

docs(quickstart): add CLI login and --no-api guidance

docs/edit/usage.rst, after:

.. _usage:

Quickstart
==========
The CO2 tracking tool can be used along with any computing framework. It supports both ``online`` (with internet access) and
``offline`` (without internet access) modes. The tracker can be used in the following ways:


Online Mode
-----------
When the environment has internet access, the ``EmissionsTracker`` object or the ``track_emissions`` decorator can be used, which has
the ``offline`` parameter set to ``False`` by default.

Command line
~~~~~~~~~~~~


Create a minimal configuration file (just follow the prompts) :

.. code-block:: console

  codecarbon config

If you want to send measurements to the API, authenticate once from your terminal:

.. code-block:: console

  codecarbon login

If you only need local tracking (CSV/logger output) and don't want API auth, run:

.. code-block:: console

  codecarbon monitor --no-api

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667970.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Init config
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667970

You can use the same command to modify an existing config :

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667971.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Modify config
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667971


If you want to track the emissions of a computer without having to modify your code, you can use :

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor

You have to stop the monitoring manually with ``Ctrl+C``.

If you want to detect the hardware of your computer without starting any measurement, you can use:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon detect

It will print the detected RAM, CPU and GPU information.

In the following example you will see how to use the CLI to monitor all the emissions of your computer and send everything
to an API running on ``localhost:8008`` (you can start a private local API with ``docker-compose up``).

.. image:: https://asciinema.org/a/667984.svg
            :align: center
            :alt: Monitor example
            :target: https://asciinema.org/a/667984


The command line could also works without internet by providing the country code like this:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor --offline --country-iso-code FRA


Running Any Command with CodeCarbon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to track emissions while running any command or program (not just Python scripts), you can use the ``codecarbon monitor --`` command.
This allows non-Python users to measure machine emissions during the execution of any command:

.. code-block:: console

    codecarbon monitor -- <your_command>

Do not surround ``<your_command>`` with quotes. The double hyphen ``--`` indicates the end of CodeCarbon options and the beginning of the command to run.

**Examples:**

.. code-block:: console

    # Run a shell script
    codecarbon monitor -- ./benchmark.sh

    # Run a command with arguments (use quotes for special characters)
    codecarbon monitor -- bash -c 'echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"'

    # Run Python scripts
    codecarbon monitor -- python train_model.py

    # Run Node.js applications
    codecarbon monitor -- node app.js

    # Run tests with output redirection
    codecarbon monitor -- npm run test > output.txt

    # Display the CodeCarbon detailed logs
    codecarbon monitor --log-level debug -- python --version

**Output:**

When the command completes, CodeCarbon displays a summary report and saves the emissions data to a CSV file:

.. code-block:: console

    🌱 CodeCarbon: Starting emissions tracking...
       Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"

    Processing...
    Done!

    ============================================================
    🌱 CodeCarbon Emissions Report
    ============================================================
       Command: bash -c echo "Processing..."; sleep 30; echo "Done!"
       Emissions: 0.0317 g CO2eq
       Saved to: /home/user/emissions.csv
       ⚠️  Note: Measured entire machine (includes all system processes)
    ============================================================

.. note::
    The ``codecarbon monitor --`` command tracks process-level emissions (only the specific command), not the
    entire machine. For machine-level tracking, use the ``codecarbon monitor`` command.

For more fine-grained tracking, implementing CodeCarbon in your code allows you to track the emissions of a specific block of code.

Explicit Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the case of absence of a single entry and stop point for the training code base, users can instantiate a ``EmissionsTracker`` object and
pass it as a parameter to function calls to start and stop the emissions tracking of the compute section.

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker
   tracker = EmissionsTracker()
   tracker.start()
   try:
        # Compute intensive code goes here
        _ = 1 + 1
   finally:
        tracker.stop()

This mode is recommended when using a Jupyter Notebook. You call ``tracker.start()`` at the beginning of the Notebook, and call ``tracker.stop()`` in the last cell.

This mode also allows you to record the monitoring with ``tracker.flush()`` that writes the emissions to disk or call the API depending on the configuration, but keep running the experiment.

If you want to monitor small piece of code, like a model inference, you could use the task manager:


.. code-block:: python

    try:
        tracker = EmissionsTracker(project_name="bert_inference", measure_power_secs=10)
        tracker.start_task("load dataset")
        dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="test")
        imdb_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
        tracker.start_task("build model")
        model = build_model()
        model_emissions = tracker.stop_task()
    finally:
        _ = tracker.stop()

This way CodeCarbon will track the emissions of each task .
The task will not be written to disk to prevent overhead, you have to get the results from the return of ``stop_task()``.
If no name is provided, CodeCarbon will generate a uuid.

Please note that you can't use task mode and normal mode at the same time. Because ``start_task`` will stop the scheduler as we do not want it to interfere with the task measurement.

Context manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``Emissions tracker`` also works as a context manager.

.. code-block:: python

    from codecarbon import EmissionsTracker

    with EmissionsTracker() as tracker:
        # Compute intensive training code goes here

This mode is recommended when you want to monitor a specific block of code.

Decorator
~~~~~~~~~
In case the training code base is wrapped in a function, users can use the decorator ``@track_emissions`` within the function to enable tracking
emissions of the training code.

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import track_emissions

   @track_emissions
   def training_loop():
       # Compute intensive training code goes here

This mode is recommended if you have a training function.

.. note::
    This will write a csv file named emissions.csv in the current directory

Offline Mode
------------
An offline version is available to support restricted environments without internet access. The internal computations remain unchanged; however,
a ``country_iso_code`` parameter, which corresponds to the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute infrastructure is hosted, is required to fetch Carbon Intensity details of the regional electricity used. A complete list of country ISO codes can be found on `Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes>`_.

Explicit Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Developers can use the ``OfflineEmissionsTracker`` object to track emissions as follows:

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker
   tracker = OfflineEmissionsTracker(country_iso_code="CAN")
   tracker.start()
   # GPU intensive training code
   tracker.stop()

Context manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The ``OfflineEmissionsTracker`` also works as a context manager

.. code-block:: python

    from codecarbon import OfflineEmissionsTracker

    with OfflineEmissionsTracker() as tracker:
    # GPU intensive training code  goes here


Decorator
~~~~~~~~~
The ``track_emissions`` decorator in offline mode requires following two parameters:

- ``offline`` needs to be set to ``True``, which defaults to ``False`` for online mode.
- ``country_iso_code`` the 3-letter alphabet ISO Code of the country where the compute infrastructure is hosted

.. code-block:: python

   from codecarbon import track_emissions
   @track_emissions(offline=True, country_iso_code="CAN")
   def training_loop():
       # training code goes here
       pass


The Carbon emissions will be saved to a ``emissions.csv`` file in the same directory. Please refer to the :ref:`complete API <parameters>` for
additional parameters and configuration options.


Configuration
=============

Configuration priority
----------------------

CodeCarbon is structured so that you can configure it in a hierarchical manner:
    * *global* parameters in your home folder ``~/.codecarbon.config``
    * *local* parameters (with respect to the current working directory) in ``./.codecarbon.config``
    * *environment variables* parameters starting with ``CODECARBON_``
    * *script* parameters in the tracker's initialization as ``EmissionsTracker(param=value)``

.. warning:: Configuration files **must** be named ``.codecarbon.config`` and start with a section header ``[codecarbon]`` as the first line in the file.

For instance:

* ``~/.codecarbon.config``

    .. code-block:: bash

            [codecarbon]
            measure_power_secs=10
            save_to_file=local-overwrite
            emissions_endpoint=localhost:7777


* ``./.codecarbon.config`` will override ``~/.codecarbon.config`` if the same parameter is set in both files :

	.. code-block:: bash

            [codecarbon]
            save_to_file = true
            output_dir = /Users/victor/emissions
            electricitymaps_api_token=script-overwrite
            experiment_id = 235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c
            log_level = DEBUG
            tracking_mode = process

* environment variables will override ``./.codecarbon.config`` if the same parameter is set in both files :

	.. code-block:: bash

            export CODECARBON_GPU_IDS="0, 1"
            export CODECARBON_LOG_LEVEL="WARNING"


* script parameters will override environment variables if the same parameter is set in both:

	.. code-block:: python

	     EmissionsTracker(
            api_call_interval=4,
            save_to_api=True,
            electricitymaps_api_token="some-token")

Yields attributes:

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "measure_power_secs": 10,  # from ~/.codecarbon.config
        "save_to_file": True,   # from ./.codecarbon.config (override ~/.codecarbon.config)
        "api_call_interval": 4, # from script
        "save_to_api": True,   # from script
        "experiment_id": "235b1da5-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-893681599d2c", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "log_level": "WARNING", # from environment variable (override ./.codecarbon.config)
        "tracking_mode": "process", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "emissions_endpoint": "localhost:7777", # from ~/.codecarbon.config
        "output_dir": "/Users/victor/emissions", # from ./.codecarbon.config
        "electricitymaps_api_token": "some-token", # from script (override ./.codecarbon.config)
        "gpu_ids": [0, 1], # from environment variable
    }

.. |ConfigParser| replace:: ``ConfigParser``
.. _ConfigParser: https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#module-configparser

.. note:: If you're wondering about the configuration files' syntax, be aware that under the hood ``codecarbon`` uses |ConfigParser|_ which relies on the `INI syntax <https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html#supported-ini-file-structure>`_.

Access internet through proxy server
------------------------------------

If you need a proxy to access internet, which is needed to call a Web API, like `Codecarbon API <https://api.codecarbon.io/docs>`_, you have to set environment variable ``HTTPS_PROXY``, or *HTTP_PROXY* if calling an ``http://`` endpoint.

You could do it in your shell:

.. code-block:: shell

    export HTTPS_PROXY="http://0.0.0.0:0000"

Or in your Python code:

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["HTTPS_PROXY"] = "http://0.0.0.0:0000"

For more information, please read the `requests library proxy documentation <https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/advanced/#proxies>`_
