docs/edit/visualize.rst, before:

.. _visualize:

Visualize
=========

Offline
--------
The package also comes with a ``Dash App`` containing illustrations to understand the emissions logged from various experiments across projects.
The App currently consumes logged information from a CSV file, generated from an in-built logger in the package.

The App can be run by executing the below CLI command that needs following arguments:

- ``filepath`` - path to the CSV file containing logged information across experiments and projects
- ``port`` - an optional port number, in case default [8050] is used by an existing process

.. code-block:: bash

    carbonboard --filepath="examples/emissions.csv" --port=3333


Summary and Equivalents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Users can get an understanding of net power consumption and emissions generated across projects and can dive into a particular project.
The App also provides exemplary equivalents from daily life, for example:

- Weekly Share of an average American household
- Number of miles driven
- Time of 32-inch LCD TV watched

.. image:: ./images/summary.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Summary
            :height: 400px
            :width: 700px


Regional Comparisons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The App also provides a comparative visual to benchmark emissions and energy mix of the electricity from the grid across different countries.

.. image:: ./images/global_equivalents.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Global Equivalents
            :height: 480px
            :width: 750px


Cloud Regions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The App also benchmarks equivalent emissions across different regions of the cloud provider being used and recommends the most eco-friendly
region to host infrastructure for the concerned cloud provider.

.. image:: ./images/cloud_emissions.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Cloud Emissions
            :height: 450px
            :width: 750px

Online
--------------

A dashboard is also available for those who chose to connect the package to the public API.
`Got to online dashboard <https://dashboard.codecarbon.io/>`_

from global...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Showing on the top the global energy consumed and emissions produced at an organisation level and the share of each project in this.
The App also provides comparison points with daily life activity to get a better understanding of the amount generated.

.. image:: ./images/codecarbon-API-dashboard.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Summary
            :width: 750px


to more and more...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each project can be divided into several experiments, and in each experiment several runs can happen.
The total emissions of experiments is shown on the barchart on the right hand side, and the runs on the bubble chart on the left hand side.
If ever your project has several experiments you can switch from one experiment's runs in the bubble chart to another by clicking the bar chart.

.. image:: ./images/Experiment-run.png
            :align: center
            :alt: experiment and run
            :width: 750px


detailed
~~~~~~~~

Clicking on one bubble, you can display the runtime series and see its metadata.

.. image:: ./images/run&metadata.png
            :align: center
            :alt: run time series and metadata
            :width: 750px

Electricity production carbon intensity per country
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The app also provides a visualization of regional carbon intensity of electricity production.

.. image:: ./images/carbon_map.png
            :align: center
            :alt: carbon intensity carbon_map
            :width: 750px

Note that for now, all data sent to CodeCarbon API are public.

Commit message:

Better support for carbonboard (#1014)
Co-authored-by: benoit-cty <anne@onyme.fr>

docs/edit/visualize.rst, after:

.. _visualize:

Visualize
=========

Offline
--------
The package also comes with a ``Dash App`` containing illustrations to understand the emissions logged from various experiments across projects.
The App currently consumes logged information from a CSV file, generated from an in-built logger in the package.

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~
The carbonboard visualization tool requires additional dependencies. Install them with:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install codecarbon[carbonboard]

.. note::
   The ``viz-legacy`` extra is deprecated but still works for backwards compatibility. It will be removed in v4.0.0. Please use ``carbonboard`` instead.

Usage
~~~~~
The App can be run by executing the below CLI command that needs following arguments:

- ``filepath`` - path to the CSV file containing logged information across experiments and projects
- ``port`` - an optional port number, in case default [8050] is used by an existing process

.. code-block:: bash

    carbonboard --filepath="examples/emissions.csv" --port=3333


Summary and Equivalents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Users can get an understanding of net power consumption and emissions generated across projects and can dive into a particular project.
The App also provides exemplary equivalents from daily life, for example:

- Weekly Share of an average American household
- Number of miles driven
- Time of 32-inch LCD TV watched

.. image:: ./images/summary.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Summary
            :height: 400px
            :width: 700px


Regional Comparisons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The App also provides a comparative visual to benchmark emissions and energy mix of the electricity from the grid across different countries.

.. image:: ./images/global_equivalents.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Global Equivalents
            :height: 480px
            :width: 750px


Cloud Regions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The App also benchmarks equivalent emissions across different regions of the cloud provider being used and recommends the most eco-friendly
region to host infrastructure for the concerned cloud provider.

.. image:: ./images/cloud_emissions.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Cloud Emissions
            :height: 450px
            :width: 750px

Online
--------------

A dashboard is also available for those who chose to connect the package to the public API.
`Got to online dashboard <https://dashboard.codecarbon.io/>`_

from global...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Showing on the top the global energy consumed and emissions produced at an organisation level and the share of each project in this.
The App also provides comparison points with daily life activity to get a better understanding of the amount generated.

.. image:: ./images/codecarbon-API-dashboard.png
            :align: center
            :alt: Summary
            :width: 750px


to more and more...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each project can be divided into several experiments, and in each experiment several runs can happen.
The total emissions of experiments is shown on the barchart on the right hand side, and the runs on the bubble chart on the left hand side.
If ever your project has several experiments you can switch from one experiment's runs in the bubble chart to another by clicking the bar chart.

.. image:: ./images/Experiment-run.png
            :align: center
            :alt: experiment and run
            :width: 750px


detailed
~~~~~~~~

Clicking on one bubble, you can display the runtime series and see its metadata.

.. image:: ./images/run&metadata.png
            :align: center
            :alt: run time series and metadata
            :width: 750px

Electricity production carbon intensity per country
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The app also provides a visualization of regional carbon intensity of electricity production.

.. image:: ./images/carbon_map.png
            :align: center
            :alt: carbon intensity carbon_map
            :width: 750px
